[THEME MUSIC]
>> RICHARD DOTY: We first
developed the craft with
the assistance of an
extraterrestrial race.
The original craft, that
was created in 1977,
was made of a type
of outer skin that
was almost a living organism.
That outer skin was able to
project itself and curve time.
Everything was pixelated.
And it was distortion that
made the human body so sick.
It was the most horrifying
experience he had in his life.
>> JOSH GOLEMBESKE:
So just to be clear,
we're talking about
time travel here?
>> RICHARD: We're
talking about travel.
>> JOSH: Project MINOT
isn't just classified.
It's tied to non-human tech.
And most people have
never even heard of it.
Joining me to talk about
it is Richard Doty,
a former Special Agent
with the Air Force
Office of Special Investigations
who worked directly
with UFO-related intelligence.
I'm Josh Golembeske, MUFON Field
Investigator and your guest host
today of Cosmic Disclosure.
Richard, welcome
back to the show.
Good to have you.
>> RICHARD: Thank you, Josh.
Good to be here.
>> JOSH: Now, I'm really excited
about this conversation today
because this is like
next-level stuff that no other
whistleblower is talking about.
So with that being
said, I know there's
been a lot of talk
and speculation
about secret space programs.
What exactly is Project MINOT?
>> RICHARD: Project MINOT is a
codename for Managed Integrated
Navigational
Off-planet Transport.
It pertains to a
craft that we created
with the assistance of
an extraterrestrial race
to travel, not within
our solar system,
but outside our solar system.
>> JOSH: Wow.
OK, well, so many questions.
Let's just start with what
division of our military
was responsible
for this program?
>> RICHARD: Well, when it
first started back in 1977,
the United States Space Command,
with assistance from NASA,
was involved in the
development for planning this.
But then DARPA came
in, and they're
the ones that went out and got
contractors, US contractors,
to help in the
development of this craft.
Now, this craft that
we're going to talk about,
referring to MINOT, refers
to just the craft, not
the operations to
pilot the craft
or fly the craft from one
point to another point.
That's entirely
different programming.
But the MINOT is just the craft.
>> JOSH: How did you find
out this information?
And why is it being given
to you to tell us today?
>> RICHARD: Because there's an
astronaut out there that was
involved in this program
that flew the MINOT crafts.
We'll codename him Ben.
Ben approached me.
I met Ben a long time ago.
I knew he was involved with
something highly classified,
but I didn't know exactly what.
And eventually, he
opened up to me.
And I believe, although he
never actually came out and told
me this, but I'm in the
belief that what he's telling
me is part of the disclosure.
And he wants it out.
Unfortunately, he's
still in the program,
and he can't talk
about it on camera.
So he asked me to do it.
And he asked me if I could
relay this information
in an environment
that the public could
understand or listen to.
And that's why I'm here on
Gaia trying to explain what
he told me about this program.
Again, there's a lot
about this program that's
so classified that
I don't know about
and he's not telling me about.
But the basics,
we can talk about.
And that's what
we're going to do.
He's been in the program about
17 years, roughly 17 years.
>> JOSH: OK, wow.
Was this technology
gifted to us?
Or did the ETs actually help
us construct this craft?
>> RICHARD: ETs helped us
to construct this craft.
>> JOSH: OK.
>> RICHARD: But It
was an evolution.
We first developed the
craft with the assistance
of an extraterrestrial race,
one particular extraterrestrial
non-human that we found
in a crash in 1959.
He was the one that
we held in captivity.
And then he decided to help us
in the development of something
that we could use to travel
throughout the universe.
>> JOSH: Oh, wow.
What particular group or
race was this ET from?
>> RICHARD: The Pleiadians.
>> JOSH: It was a Pleiadians?
>> RICHARD: Yes.
>> JOSH: Oh, very interesting.
>> RICHARD: Well, most people
within the UFO community knows
that a code name for a
particular extraterrestrial that
worked out of Area 51.
And they know it by J-Rod.
>> JOSH: J-Rod.
>> RICHARD: J-Rod was a
non-human that assisted us
in the creation of
this Project MINOT.
Now, remember, the
Pleiadians star system
had thousands of stars--
thousands.
>> JOSH: Yeah.
>> RICHARD: And so they have
literally thousands of planets.
We're only dealing
with where J-Rod lived
and those surrounding planets
within his solar system.
We're not talking about
any of the other--
and there may be life
on these other planets.
And maybe there's
confusion between when
somebody said a Pleiadian.
Maybe there's a Pleiadian
from another planet.
>> JOSH: Sure, yeah.
>> RICHARD: And so I'm talking
to a guy that actually had
an interface.
So I'm not saying that any of
these other stories aren't true,
but we're only
talking about J-Rod.
And we're talking about
his society and his planet.
>> JOSH: So just
for our audience,
I think we need to explain a
little more about who J-Rod is
and the Pleiadians.
>> RICHARD: OK.
J-Rod was in a
craft that crashed
in 1959, October of 1959, in
Nye County, Nevada, near a mine.
Miners saw the crash.
They went out.
They found-- they knew it
wasn't a human, live entity.
They call it a creature.
It was needing help.
The miners had to go back to
their administrative site, which
was about 10 or 12 miles
away, get some help.
But back in 1959, communications
wasn't very, very good.
So eventually, they
contacted Nye County Sheriff,
who then contacted the Air Force
because Tonopah and Area 51
was active then.
It took them 11 days
to get out there.
They get out there.
The Air Force
recovered the craft.
They recovered this
extraterrestrial.
It was later codenamed J-Rod.
And that is an entirely
different story,
why they call him J-Rod.
But anyways, so they have an
extraterrestrial in captivity.
They already had one.
Remember, they had
EBE-1, who died in 1952.
Now J-Rod, different species,
they knew immediately.
The scientists looked at J-Rod.
It looked similar to a human--
bipedal.
They had arms and legs,
although their eye sockets
were different.
They had no eyebrows.
Their eyes were a little
bit different than ours.
One of the problems
they had immediately
was J-Rod couldn't talk.
He couldn't speak English.
He didn't understand it.
We couldn't obviously
understand him,
just similar to what we
went through with EBE-1.
>> JOSH: Yeah.
>> RICHARD: But over time,
they found that the biologics
of J-Rod, there were a lot of
similarities to that of a human.
So they figured, well, maybe
he can learn our language.
We probably couldn't learn his.
So over a period of time-- and I
don't know what that time period
was--
he learned English.
He was able to speak it because
of his biologics, his throat.
His language was more
tones and strange sounds.
But he was able to learn
our English because you
got to understand this, their
civilization with thousands
of years more advanced than us.
So their mind was they
probably had a 200 IQ
level, so they were able to
understand things a lot quicker
and faster than we could.
And so they trained--
we, the military, trained
J-Rod in our language.
And the fact that he was
similar to a human, that
made things easier for us.
And therefore, once he
understood and could
speak our language,
he could then
give us a lot of technology.
>> JOSH: A lot of times when
you hear contact between an ET,
it's always telepathy.
So J-Rod wasn't using his
mind at all to communicate.
It was all verbal.
>> RICHARD: Right.
>> JOSH: Was there a part of
it that was telepathy as well
or no?
It was just straight
verbal information.
>> RICHARD: Well, later on,
there was some thought transfer,
they would call it.
>> JOSH: Thought transfer?
>> RICHARD: But there was a
telepathic communication system
that J-Rod was trying to portray
or instill into the humans,
but they weren't grasping it.
And even before they taught
J-Rod the English language,
there were some--
and this would be
another entire episode.
There were some
particular, I'll just say,
people, that he had an interface
with, that they went back
and said, he's trying to
communicate through my mind.
I'm reading what he's
saying in my mind.
And they tested him.
He's communicating.
And they did something
to show that what
this person, the
human, is receiving
is exactly what J-Rod wants.
So there was a communication
system through telepathy--
only through telepathy--
until he learned English.
One thing the viewers
have to understand
is when I was in-- we knew
of five different species
of extraterrestrials
that have visited Earth
or we had some form
of contact with.
Some of these could not speak.
They had no voice box.
Everything was done
through their mind,
through consciousness,
thought transfer,
telepathy, those
paranormal things
that we would call paranormal
communications methods.
And so the only way
we could communicate
with them is through that.
And we had to learn that
because we didn't know it.
I mean, suddenly, a
extraterrestrial species
shows up, and they can't talk.
And we talk, but they
can't understand us.
So you imagine the complexity
of that was back then.
And then there were
some that could,
but they spoke a
different language.
They spoke in tones or
whatever, like EBE-1 did.
So these things were all
different technologies,
all different biologics.
So it's not just one.
And I hear so many
people out there
within the UFO community
talk about aliens
as if there was
just one species.
There weren't.
There were at least five.
And I understand
now there's probably
9 or 10 that we
know of that we've
had contact with officially.
So we had to first communicate
something to J-Rod in order
for him to communicate with us.
And it was easier for us
to teach him, I guess,
because we were able to show
him the English language.
And obviously, I don't know how
long it took, but he learned it.
And he was able to
communicate with us in English
because, obviously, we
couldn't learn his language.
>> JOSH: Right.
That makes sense.
But why was J-Rod so willing to
help us develop our technology?
He crashed here.
We captured him, but he was
open to just sharing information
and helping the human race?
>> RICHARD: Yeah, that's an
entirely different subject.
But because you
brought it up, J-Rod
was the only survivor of five.
There were five in that craft.
Four died.
He was the only survivor.
He's on an alien planet to him.
He's in trouble.
And I don't know exactly
if he was injured or what.
I don't know that
part of the story,
but he has comrades inside his
craft that were dead or died.
And so he had to
cooperate in some way.
If you put yourself
on an alien planet,
you've got to ask for
help some way or another.
>> JOSH: Sure, yeah.
>> RICHARD: And
that's what he did.
And I don't know why he decided
to help us all these years
because that was in 1959.
And to the best of my
knowledge, although--
I don't know everything, but
the best of my knowledge, J-Rod
is still alive and well, living
someplace within the Nellis Test
and Training Range.
>> JOSH: Wow.
>> RICHARD: And
obviously, he has to be--
I think he has to
have some assistance
in some environmental reason
because his planet had
a different atmosphere
or something like that.
That's what I was told.
But again, I'm not an
expert in that area.
I just know that if
I was in his shoes,
I would have to
learn the language,
cooperate, and assist
as much as I can.
But one of the
reasons that J-Rod
wanted to help us create
something is to take him home.
>> JOSH: So back to
the craft itself,
I imagine this is obviously
not a conventional craft.
What sets it apart in like
design and capabilities
from conventional
type human vehicles?
>> RICHARD: Well, first
of all, the craft,
which was codenamed Cronus--
Cronus is--
>> JOSH: Cronus?
>> RICHARD: Cronus is the god
of time in Greek mythology.
And I don't know who named
it, but somebody did.
And there's a reason why
that we can discuss later.
The craft, the
original craft, it
was-- that was created in
1977, Cronus, just Cronus,
was made of a type
of outer skin that
was almost a living organism.
And that's part of the
extraterrestrial contribution
to that craft.
That outer skin was able to
project itself and curve time.
Now, there's probably 1,000
questions right there of how--
number 1, did we-- or how
did they give us this?
And how does it work with
anything that we have?
Because part of this craft,
because humans actually
had to fly the craft, had to
be made of human technology.
But parts of it was made with
extraterrestrial technology,
or at least Pleiadian
technology that
was able to project
it to a point in space
where it could find a portal--
portal opening-- and then flying
through that portal from point A
to point B. And that's
done through the skin
of the craft, which,
as we were told,
was like a living organism.
But it's something
other than biological.
It's like a third quantum type
of substance that can think
and interact with consciousness
because, eventually,
at some time-- and we'll
talk about it later--
that the astronauts
are flying these crafts
through their
consciousness, interfacing
with the outer skin of that
craft, which is, again, a living
organism.
In the beginning, they
were using controls,
interfacing with the skin
because the craft could not
do what we would want it to do
or what J-Rod wanted it to do
for us without the outer skin.
Because the main
part of that craft
that propels it through these
portals is the outer skin.
And that had to be done--
that had to be created
by the Pleiadians
because we didn't have the
technology in 1977 to do that.
So the first craft
had the outer skin,
but the interior was more human
because humans had to fly it.
>> JOSH: You mentioned that the
skin can somehow curve space
time and find portals.
Can you tell me more about that?
>> RICHARD: Well, it's
not just the skin.
We have to go back a little bit.
J-Rod gave us something else
from the craft that he crashed
in the desert of Nevada.
And there were devices
that he took out or told
them to take out that were able
to be used inside that craft.
It wasn't just the skin,
but it was another device.
This other device was a
four-vector longitudinal pathway
device that interfaced with the
skin that allowed this craft
to be steered towards
these portals that
were located in space.
And so the skin, in
conjunction with this device,
this four-vector
longitudinal pathway--
and that's our
description of it.
It's not obviously
J-Rod's description.
>> JOSH: Yeah.
>> RICHARD: We're able
together to find these portals.
Now, how exactly we
did that, I don't know.
And he never explained that.
But again, our technology
at that time in 1977
hasn't advanced to the
point where we could
understand alien technology.
I mean, if you consider that
Pleiadians or the Ebens who--
of course, the Ebens
was found in the 1947
craft, the craft that was
crashed at Roswell or Corona.
We didn't understand that craft.
We didn't understand
that technology.
Now, jumping ahead
in 1959 when we
found this other craft,
the Pleiadian craft,
entirely different technology.
These aliens don't have
the same technologies.
They come from
different star groups.
They're different biologics.
They have different
technologies.
Now, we have this other
craft that we have no idea
because we compared that
craft to the Eben craft.
And we found, wow, these
are totally different.
>> JOSH: Oh, wow.
>> RICHARD: Now we have
to advance our technology
to a point where
we can understand.
And that's why it's
taken so long to do that.
And we did this with
the assistance of J-Rod.
>> JOSH: Let's get back
into these portals.
So the craft
approaches a portal.
Are these portals like
natural phenomenon
just spread out
through the universe?
Or is there any evidence
that they were engineered
by a race like the Pleiadians?
>> RICHARD: One of the
things J-Rod gave us was a--
the simplest explanation
I can give you
here is a star map, a map
that we had to understand.
And there was a lot of
background about how
we could understand it.
Where did we use the
old Apollo system,
which there is indication that
we might have had more space
launches to test portals
even in the early '70s?
And also, maybe the
Russians used it in Kosmos
to try to get near a portal to
look and see what it was like.
But what we did
was we knew based--
eventually, after we figured
out what this star map was
of our solar system,
where these points were,
and so what we had to do was
propel a craft to that point.
And then when we
got to that point,
the skin of the craft
and this other device,
the longitudinal pathway device,
saw out that path, that portal,
and propelled the craft into it.
>> JOSH: OK, I want to get
into what happened once you go
into the portal.
But to be clear,
when you say there
was a map of these portals,
is that natural portals?
Or do you have any-- or
is it engineered portals?
>> RICHARD: I don't know
whether it was engineered.
That's a good
question, whether--
who made these portals?
>> JOSH: Yeah.
>> RICHARD: I think there
were probably natural.
And I'm guessing here.
I hate to say something
that I'm not sure about,
but I'm just guessing that there
are probably natural portals.
They're out there.
You think of the
vastness of the universe.
It would be almost impossible
to make these things.
But then again, I
don't know that.
But I think they
were something that
was out there that these
star travelers figured out
or maybe they did engineer it.
But then again,
that's a good question
that I just can't answer.
>> JOSH: OK, so you
touched on it a little bit.
But once the craft
approaches these portals,
how does it activate the portal
and get ready to actually go on,
go through it?
Is it a wormhole?
What are we talking about here?
>> RICHARD: Yeah, that's a
good analogy there-- wormhole.
As Ben explained to me--
and he went through
these things--
there were pathways or
navigational directions.
And if you speak to an
astronaut today that
has traveled outside the
solar system, most of them--
the old ones are
dead-- but they'll
tell you that we know
coordinates in space.
And so this skin of
the craft that could
curve time, and then this other
device, the pathway device,
directs the craft to
a particular point.
As it gets to that
point, that portal opens.
And I don't know why or how.
He never went into that.
I'm sure we probably know, and
it's probably highly classified.
So once the craft gets
to that portal, it opens.
Now, here's the problem.
Once these-- our astronauts, two
in a craft, the Cronus craft,
once we got in there, and
once we got to that portal,
it will open.
Now, there's all sorts
of physiological effects
that occurs on the astronaut.
But one of the problems is
that once we enter that portal,
they don't know
where they're going.
They're entering A, and
they don't know where B is.
So they're almost going
through-- in the early stages,
OK?
This is the early
experimental stage.
They go through
this, and they don't
know where they're ending up.
>> JOSH: That's terrifying.
>> RICHARD: Yeah,
very terrifying.
>> JOSH: What happens in that
physical tunnel from point
A to point B?
And how is time experienced?
>> RICHARD: Good question.
Well, as they enter,
the astronauts-- now,
remember, in the early
days, they weren't prepared
because I don't know
that J-Rod could explain
or knew how a human would
react to this portal
because it's almost
like a time machine
as it was explained to me.
Because when you go through
it, there's an event horizon,
just like if you're
entering a black hole,
but everything is pixelated.
What he explained, it was the
most horrifying experience
he had in his life.
And he went through--
he was a fighter pilot.
And he went through all the
sorts of astronaut training.
But no, they never trained
the astronauts for this.
>> JOSH: How could you?
>> RICHARD: Everything
was pixelated.
And it was distortion that
made the human body so sick.
And it happened for
a period of time.
Now, we're on linear
time period because there
was no time recorded
in this craft
because there's just nothing.
There's no time.
If you can imagine
there's no time.
But as they get to the end of
that portal or coming out of it,
everything goes back to normal,
at least somewhat normal.
Now, they're outside.
When they exit that portal,
they're going a great--
they're going a great speed.
And I don't know
what that speed is.
And it takes-- well, it took the
human astronauts a time period
to adjust after going
through that portal.
And when they get out,
then they realized
that they are in the future.
>> JOSH: So just to be clear,
we're talking about time travel
here?
>> RICHARD: We're talking
about time travel.
>> JOSH: All right, before we
get to where they end up going,
I want to know a little bit
more about this, I guess,
tunnel or this wormhole
they're in for a second.
What else happens
to the astronauts
when they're
physically in there?
You mentioned that
they're disoriented
and that they don't feel well.
Is there physical, emotional--
is their even spiritual effects
to that transition
or that journey?
>> RICHARD: Well, one thing he
told me was when he first went
through it, the first thing he
did was trying to look at his
body, his hands.
He can't see 'em.
All you see is pixelization.
>> JOSH: Oh.
>> RICHARD: Now, if you've
never experienced that or never
trained to cope with it,
it could drive you crazy.
And he said it made--
although he was-- he said it--
a pretty down-to-earth person,
didn't look at fright as being
something that would affect him,
but he was scared to death.
His mind couldn't operate.
It just couldn't think.
Now, one of the things
I asked him was, well,
how long did it last?
Well, again, I'm
trying to relate time.
He says, I don't know.
I just know that eventually,
we came out of it.
>> JOSH: He's freaking out.
>> RICHARD: Because we thought--
because there was only two
astronauts, him and another one
in this craft.
He said, I actually thought
we were going to die.
I thought we already were dead
because you can't see anything.
Now, I don't even know
if I can imagine that.
But your body felt
very heavy, he said.
They were seated in their chair.
And they were strapped in.
And he doesn't know
what would have happened
if they weren't strapped in.
Now, after they got out--
again, it took him some time.
And he said, we went back to
recording Earth-based time.
It took like hours and
hours to adjust their bodies
back to normal.
>> JOSH: Oh, OK.
>> RICHARD: Then, they
realized they got a mission.
They got to take over.
They got to realize what
they're doing, where they're at,
and function back as astronauts.
>> JOSH: Well, it's fascinating.
First of all, seat belts are
important in wormholes, as well
as highways.
They must have had a test
mission to start this off with.
What was the first thing they
tried to do with the Cronus 1,
they call it?
Cronus 1?
>> RICHARD: Well, Cronus then.
>> JOSH: Cronus?
>> RICHARD: Just Cronus.
>> JOSH: Yeah.
>> RICHARD: They flew a
mission from Earth to the moon.
Then, later on, they
went through a portal.
In 1980, they actually
went through the portal.
>> JOSH: How did they know
how to get back not just
to the location they were
at, but also in time?
If they were time traveling,
I'd be terrified that I'd be--
I could never get back to my
present time with my family
and friends.
>> RICHARD: Excellent question.
What they did was
in the early days,
they created something
called the quantum cord.
>> JOSH: OK.
>> RICHARD: Now, the cord was
always used to bring the craft
back after they went
through the portal.
Now, I'm not sure how
this cord worked, but we--
one of the first things
that was on our mind
when the craft was
created through DARPA
and these other contractors was
that question you just said.
It was, OK, we're going
to propel these astronauts
through this time portal
or these time warp
or whatever you want to call it.
How are they going to get back?
So J-Rod said, I got an
explanation for that--
something we used.
Now, I'm not sure
exactly how they did this
or what it involved, but
J-Rod said, OK, here's
what you need to do.
And this is somehow-- we created
this quantum cord to bring us
back to the portal
that we exited,
so we could go back through
the same way we came out.
And that's roughly what
he explained to me.
Now, there's a lot more probably
to that that he did and is
probably classified or something
he's not going to talk about
because I have 1,000
questions to ask too.
OK, you got this quantum cord.
You go through this portal.
Now you're 1,000 or 10,000
or 40,000 or 80,000 years
into the future.
Where's this quantum cord?
Is it connected
to that exit or--
I mean, I don't know.
>> JOSH: Yeah.
>> RICHARD: Those are the
questions I would ask.
And he didn't answer them.
But there's obviously
some way to do it
because these crafts always came
back even though they went--
and it would take maybe two to
four to six months Earth time.
They always came back.
So you didn't go out--
and this is another question
because a lot of people
know I teach math.
And some of the equations
that I can deal with is, OK,
if you go through this portal,
and it takes however long
a period, even if it's a linear
time period, and you come out,
and you're 40,000
years into the future,
and you stay three
or four months,
and then you go back
and come back through,
I would think that our time
period would have advanced
farther than that.
>> JOSH: Right, yeah.
>> RICHARD: But it doesn't.
It doesn't seem to because he
said, no, it doesn't do that.
There's some-- I
don't know something
that we know that
he's not telling
or maybe he doesn't even know.
But he says, you go through, and
it's like a month or two months.
And you come back through.
And when you come back
through a couple of months,
you've been gone a couple--
I think a year was the most
they've ever been gone.
But you come back, and
a year has advanced.
But another question
that I have--
and this is fascinating,
I think-- is aging.
Do you age?
Because you look at Einstein's
theory, theory of relativity
and all the different
theories that Einstein has.
I'm not going to go
into all of them.
But if you were to do
that, Einstein would say,
you didn't age, but everybody
else would have aged.
But that didn't happen in this.
And that's the big question of
why there must be more to it
that we don't know about
that they know about.
>> JOSH: All right, Rick,
the next question I have is,
where were they
going in the future?
>> RICHARD: What if I was
to tell you they went 4,000,
40,000, and 80,000
years into the future?
But of course, that's
for the next episode.
>> JOSH: All right.
I can't wait to dive in.
Well, thanks, Rick,
again for being here.
This was an incredible episode.
I'm looking forward to
continuing this conversation.
>> RICHARD: It's
great being here.
>> JOSH: My name
is Josh Golembeske.
Thank you for watching
Cosmic Disclosure.
We'll see you next time.
[THEME MUSIC]